---
layout: post
title:      "Why did you decide to study Software Engineering?"
date:       2020-04-01 05:26:42 +0000
permalink:  why_did_you_decide_to_study_software_engineering
---



Starting as a young lad learning to fix the family computer so that I may further my own video gaming addiction,  I've found myself constantly surrounded by technology. After teaching myself how to build, repair, and upgrade PCs, I found that the enigma of this once mysterious machine had become a more familiar tool that I wished to utilize more. This caused me to eventually transition into the field of IT where I would build and fix computers for various companies, but I didn't think of this as a career path as much as a side skill I had that would get me through college. After highschool I decided to major in physics because I enjoyed my physics classes in highschool, I was comfortable with math, and I did well in the classes. Two years later, I got my A.S Science degree which was supposed to be my stepping stone from a community college to a university, however I soon realized how impotent that degree was when looking for work to carry me through the new two years. I took a closer look at the job market and career path for B.S Physics graduates and found a disappointing result: many were not working in a job that required any of their knowledge. Most were hired in jobs that just appreciated the rigors of the degree itself rather than the content of the degree, as if it were little more than a litmus test. This was the point I started reconsidering my career path. I had often considered coding before, but thought that physics would be more of the "breadwinner". This is not to say I'm in software engineering or physics for the money. I feel I have a natural aptitude for logical, "mathy" work and just wanted to best utilize this. It was at this time when unrelated events saw me move from Chicago to Seattle and I couldn't ask for a better city to work in if I were to pursue this newfound interest in software engineering. Now the question was where I was going to go to school. I've had a growing suspicion of the school system over the last few years. I have a friend with a B.S in Chemistry, another friends with a B.S in Aerospace Engineering, and another friend with a B.A in Industrial Design. You know what their degrees got them? Debt. Debt and a job completely unrelated to their fields. They all say these jobs are just temporary until they can find their career job, but two of them have been working this temp job for over two years now. After searching online I came across these online software bootcamps and was amazed by how progressive this form of education seemed compared to those dated and antiquated brick and mortar universities. After much research and careful consideration, I chose flatiron and started my journey as an aspiring web developer and software engineer. 
