---
layout: post
title:      "My first coding project"
date:       2020-04-22 22:55:08 +0000
permalink:  my_first_coding_project
---


Over the course of my first independent project I went through many stages in my thought process. When I first began I was nervous but also excited to try and make something that is my own from scratch with minimal direction. Before I could even begin my project, I needed to work out an environment that I will write the project on. Initially I was going to use a virtual linux terminal in conjunction with VSCode but I ran into several issues with this process. Luckly, most of them simply "vanished" when I tried again on a different day. Computers, eh? At this point it was wednesday and I hadn't even begun my project yet so I had to switch gears and start writing on the learn.co IDE which was having issues at the time with stability and random crashes as well as occasional performance issues. Luckily I didn't have much issue with the IDE save for the occasional freeze or lag that would eventually go away on its own. 
So now start the actual project: two days later than I would have liked to start and having already dealt with a bit of headache inducing technical problems. Starting the code was smooth at first: setting up files and folders, creating classes, etc. All stuff that I've been doing for the better half of the past month. A few hours in I started to get a little lost: following an organized series of problems and hammering them out one-by-one until the lab was done is one thing, but having free reign like this can be a bit disorientating. I decided to give it a rest for the first day and come back to it the next.
The following day, now Thursday, is where I got a majority of my core program done. I had spent quite a bit of time (too much time) trying to get the gems required for the program to install automatically with the program, but a few hours of trying, googling, and asking around lead me to just have the gems be manually installed before the program. This endeavor wasn't completely fruitless, however. While looking online and learning about gems, I came across a few interesting ones that I had considered integrating into my program. The one that made it was called 'colorize' which does precisely that, colorized text. This broke up the wall of text that my program was spitting out and would make the user experience all that more enjoyable. By the end of Thursday I have the skeleton of what I wanted my project to be, I just needed to iron out the plethora of bugs and crashes as well as add in a few additional lines of functionality (namely the ability to list options again as well as 'exit' so the user wouldn't get stuck inside an endless loop while in the program like I did multiple times). 
Friday came and progressed slower than I would like it to have been. The IDE was not cooperating with me causing me to lose changes on multiple occasions despite my best efforts to save early and often. Additionally outside influences posed a great distraction from my work which were only compounded in the final days of this project. Finally, however, the project was coming to a close. I feel like I could definitely add more functionality given more time and less distractions because I'm still happy and proud of what I wrote. I learned a whole lot with the project .

